Summary and Highlights: Introduction to Monitoring and Tuning
In this lesson, you learned that:

The Spark application UI centralizes critical information, including status information, into the Jobs, Stages, Storage, Environment, and Executors tabbed regions.

You can quickly identify failures and then drill down to the lowest levels of the application to discover their root causes. If the application runs SQL queries, select the SQL tab and the description hyperlink to display the query’s details.

The Spark application workflow includes jobs created by the Spark Context in the driver program, jobs in progress running as tasks in the executors, and completed jobs transferring results back to the driver or writing to disk.

Common reasons for application failure on a cluster include user code, system and application configurations, missing dependencies, improper resource allocation, and network communications.

User code-specific errors include syntax, serialization, and data validation. Related errors can happen outside the code. If a task fails due to an error, Spark can attempt to rerun tasks for a set number of retries. 

If all attempts to run a task fail, Spark reports an error to the driver and terminates the application. The cause of an application failure can usually be found in the driver event log. 

Spark enables configurable memory for executor and driver processes. Executor memory and storage memory share a region that can be tuned. 

Setting data persistence by caching data is one technique used to improve application performance.

Spark assigns processor cores to driver and executor processes during application processing. Executors process tasks in parallel according to the number of cores available or as assigned by the application.  

You can apply the argument ‘--executor-cores 8 \’ to set executor cores on submit per executor. This example specifies eight cores.

You can specify the executor cores for a Spark standalone cluster for the application using the argument ‘--total-executor-cores 50’ followed by the number of cores for the application. This example specifies 50 cores.

When starting a worker manually in a Spark standalone cluster, you can specify the number of cores the application uses by using the argument ‘--cores’ followed by the number of cores. Spark’s default behavior is to use all available cores.


