SQL Scripts - Uses and Applications
SQL Scripts
SQL scripts are a series of commands or a program that will be executed on an SQL server.

SQL scripts are useful for making complex database changes and can be used to create, modify, or delete database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, and functions.

Applications of SQL Scripts
Here are some of the things that you can do with SQL scripts:

Create tables
You can use SQL scripts to create new tables in your database. This is useful when you need to add new functionality to your application or when you want to store new types of data.

Drop tables
SQL scripts often have commands to Drop tables from databases. This is especially important before Create table commands to make sure that a table with the same name doesnt exist in the database already.

Insert data
SQL scripts can also be used to insert data into your tables. This is useful when you need to populate your database with test data or when you want to import data from an external source.

Update data
You can use SQL scripts to update existing data in your tables. This is useful when you need to correct errors or update records based on changing business requirements.

Delete data
SQL scripts can also be used to delete data from your tables. This is useful when you need to remove old or obsolete records from your database.

Create views
Views are virtual tables that allow you to query data from multiple tables as if they were a single table. You can use SQL scripts to create views that simplify complex queries and make it easier to work with your data.

Create stored procedures
Stored procedures are precompiled SQL statements that can be executed on demand. You can use SQL scripts to create stored procedures that encapsulate complex business logic and make it easier to manage your database.

Create triggers
Triggers are special types of stored procedures that are automatically executed in response to certain events, such as an insert, update, or delete operation. You can use SQL scripts to create triggers that enforce business rules and maintain data integrity.


Summary: Relational Database Concepts and Tables
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know:  

A database is a repository of data that provides functionality for adding, modifying, and querying the data.  

SQL is a language used to query or retrieve data from a relational database.  

The Relational Model is the most used data model for databases because it allows for data independence.  

The primary key of a relational table uniquely identifies each tuple or row, preventing duplication of data and providing a way of defining relationships between tables.  

SQL statements fall into two different categories: Data Definition Language (DDL) statements and Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements. 